Just apply for this executive vice presidency and start asking around about the process and what it would require.
Got my application in and applied and interviewed, but was not selected for the position.
In fact, let's see, it was Greg Hawkins' younger brother, Robert, was selected.
And so, no big deal.
So then I decided, well, my goodness, I want a seat on the council.
Now there's the vacancy for the VP for Cultural Programs.
And so I applied for that and was selected.
And we were having a banner year.
And the individual, there was another executive vice president position that became vacant because the student leader resigned.
It was the executive vice president for marketing and personnel.
So I said, I'm going to apply for it.
I had spent a few months on council and was selected for that.
So I was part of Dennis Davis's.
So you're both on the council and?
and involved in the committee.
So I continued to be involved in some of the other committees.
Really got more involved, a lot more involved with Fall Leadership Conference and planning the Fall Leadership Conference.
So that was really neat and had a wonderful year.
But then I decided
This is it.
I've done marketing and personnel.
I've had fun.
It's time for me to go off the council.
And I happened to be up in the student programs office one day, and Dennis Davis, who was the president, came to me and said, you know, are you going to apply?
for presidency?
I said, no.
And she said, well, why not?
And I said, well, I said, I just hadn't thought about it.
I said, I just, it's wonderful to be EVP, but I just, I don't know why I didn't just think about the presidency.
And I thought, I can't do it.
I just don't want to do it.
And so she said, well, I think you ought to do it.
I think you really ought to think about it.
She said, why don't you get by and visit with Jim Reynolds?
Why don't you get by and visit with some of the other advisors and make up your mind?
Well, the next day, one of the student leaders came by who was involved in the student development area.
And he came to me and said, I'm really interested in being on next year's council.
But I wanted to talk to you because I would expect that you would be a candidate for president.
And I said, well, why?
And he said, well, I just thought you would.
So I thought, well, maybe I ought to think about this council presidency thing.
And I just waited and waited, started asking people, but did not talk to Jim, Jim Reynolds, yet.
Finally, I went in to see Jim and said, Jim, I think I have decided to do this.
well he says to me i think that's absolutely wonderful but i'm disappointed that that you did not come to me you have not come to me sooner to talk about this and i said well jim i just want you to be comfortable that i'm not i don't think i'm i'm not making a fly by night decision i really want to do this now and he said well i understand he said i'm just and i'm also disappointed that you just you were not already thinking about doing this and so
Okay, okay.
We talked about that and talked about generally what his expectations, what he saw as the challenges.
I asked him to be very, to kind of evaluate me, if he could tell me what he saw as my strengths and weaknesses, and they were pretty much on target with what I had
what I had perceived about my strengths and weaknesses, and then it got pretty serious.
So then I decided, okay, I was going to apply.
And knowing that there was a possibility that I wasn't going to get it, and there was another, in fact, one of the other executive vice presidents decided to apply.
He had planned to apply, apparently had made up his mind much sooner than I had.
And so my application, everything came in at the last, it came in before the deadline, but came in last.
he then decided to opt out of the process and don't know why but and so it was I was literally while there was no we were we always tell everybody in the MSC you you're not necessarily competing for against somebody else for the position you're competing against yourself and that that the council still could have decided that they didn't that they were not going to name me president
And I remember after going through my interview, which was a very, it seemed like it lasted all day, but got through the interview process and then the night of the council meeting where they actually present the slate or there was
Of course, they asked the candidates to leave the room, and I was just asked to go and wait in Dennis' office.
And it just seemed like time just slowed up.
It just seemed like it took forever for the council to deliberate and come to some conclusions about my candidacy.
I think there were some people on the council who were not particularly thrilled, and I can't remember
I guess it would have had to have been my years of experience because I had kind of come through the ranks so rapid.
And I think people were asking about that.
I decided at the last minute or decided late to be a candidate.
I think there was a lot of discussion about that.
But it turns out the council did decide to name me president, and it was wonderful.
It was a great year.
As you review that process, do you think you were treated fairly?
I think so.
I really do.
I think, interesting, in spite of
in spite of what happened, I thought the rules of the process prevailed.
And I did not lose faith in the process.
I think people may have tried to alter the process.
But I learned a very valuable lesson in that, that there were a couple people on the council who were critical of
of my leadership in my EVP role.
And so I learned a very good lesson about office politics or corporate politics.
But I don't harbor, never really harbored any feelings, negative feelings about it.
I really viewed it as a learning experience.
And I was determined to grow from that.
I mean, I was determined that I was going to be the best darn president that the Student Center had ever had.
And I think we had a phenomenal year.
All right.
Now, also, my question has the other side of it.
Were you just handed it because you were a minority student?
You know, the battalion made a big issue of me being the first African American.
And I'm proud that it happened.
But I was also determined that if the council had, if by some chance, the council had made the selection based only on my race, they were going to get way more than they bargained for.
And so I just, I was not gonna be an African American president.
I was gonna be the MSC president and that was gonna be it.
And so I was determined that, I was determined to prove that I did, I was selected based on merit.
And I think the way you do that is you just, you bust your butt and do a good job.
What were your primary goals as the year started?
Oh, God.
Well, I thought the relationship between the council and the committees needed some improvements, and so I wanted to see that happen.
I wanted to look at the approval processes throughout the organization
And I wanted to have the committees feel like they were being treated fairly, that they recognized an appropriate role for the council or the governing body.
I also, I made some, one of the big things that the MSC president gets to do is make appointments to standing committees.
And I spent a lot of time working on standing committees, standing committee appointments, because I thought
I thought they lacked diversity.
And I don't mean in terms of ethnicity, I mean largely in terms of thought or experience.
And so I did some pretty radical things like I asked the chair of one of the premier organizations
and that's SCONA.
I asked the chair of SCONA to be a part of what was then, we had a series of study committees and those study committees kind of worked with what I would call problem committees.
looking at fundamental issues about what's the committee's goal, what's the committee's purpose, and how do we structure the committee, how do we get people involved, all those kinds of things.
So I asked some of the individuals who were the stars in the organization based on their committee appointment, based on their chairmanships, their leadership roles as chair, committee chairs, to sit
For instance, I asked the chair of SCONA to be a part of the recreational sports, I mean, the recreational studies committee.
So she would work with those committees because I thought that those committees could gain from her leadership.
So I wanted to not just put people in very typical roles, you know, all of the, where the chair of SCONA and the chair of Wiley got to be, got to sit in on, you know, be primary committees.
I gave them committees that nobody was excited about.
because I thought they could bring something to the table.
But I talked to them about what those expectations were.
I want every committee to run as smoothly and be as strong as SCONA, and so other committees need to hear from your experience and gain from your experience.
So we did that, and I think it worked well.
So that was a big deal for me to do that.
I also knew that I thought we had some problem committees and I thought we needed to do something about them.
We didn't need to keep them on.
We needed to either keep them on or put some resources in place to move them along.
and to be very critical in our thinking about that.
I was also very concerned with our budget deficit.
We kept running budget deficits in our concerts with Town Hall and our Broadway series, which began to compete
very much so with Opus.
And so I wanted to do something about that because they were becoming a huge drain on the organization financially.
And so we ended up doing those.
We ended up eliminating some committees.
We ended up reducing, in fact, we eliminated the town hall series
uh we moved the town hall series from the broadway series from town hall to opus and now that's why opus opus season looks a lot different than it did uh back then uh but but we've and then we started using promoters to do concerts uh uh and and i think it i think it really worked worked wonderfully so it was it was a pretty positive year of the uh in your year
Which were the outstanding committee's activities?
Gosh.
You mentioned SCONA as being part of that.
Yeah, SCONA was one.
Wiley was one.
We also put in place what was the beginning of the Jordan Institute for International Awareness.
Mrs. Jordan was very generous in supporting, wanting to support an international program committee.
Now, we had an international committee
But we also had, but the committee was kind of very young and without some purpose, but we were also beginning to compete with the International Student Association for members.
What we decided was to call on those folks, organize a study committee, and I asked Michelle Mobley, who had spent a great deal of time chairing Opus, who really developed a relationship with her father as dean of the College of Business, Bill Mobley,
who I knew had a great deal of appreciation for international issues, international programs.
And Michelle shared that.
that same love for internationalism and ask her to chair the study committee that basically ended up recommending to the council that we take the Jordan Institute Committee, merge it with International Programs Committee, create a huge program, and it's worked wonderfully.
So that was pretty neat.
What were the most frustrating groups to have to work with?
Let's see.
They turned out to be not so frustrating for me.
One, I was really concerned about COMAC, which is the Committee for the Awareness of the Mexican-American Culture.
There was not a lot of student involvement in it, but I thought it was a very important committee, and so we spent a great little time trying to study it.
We had an MSC recreation committee that just kind of went
went belly up that students just kind of didn't want to participate.
Well, Rec Sports, the Rec Sports program was just so huge.
And so we were having trouble finding our niche with that committee.
And we ended up, we did a couple of neat things, but we ended up eliminating that committee.
One committee that I had some problems with was a subcommittee of the hospitality, and that was the pageant, the Miss Texas A&M pageant.
Committee which was again a part of the Hospitality Committee and we just had some very difficult times with there were charges of
unfair and unkind treatment of the contestants, and in fact Miss Texas A&M, and I just learned some not so pleasant things about pageants, particularly the Miss Texas pageant and the way, I think it's a lot better now, but it was,
I don't think it was a very, I think a lot of women may have benefited from it, but I think a lot of women were just hurt, hurt by it.
It was just some very nice, and it was not always just the men that were just terrible about it.
There were some women that bought into this.
And it was always a challenge that our pageant was so heavily governed by the Miss Texas A&M pageant rules.
And in fact, we spent a lot of time thinking about whether we were gonna pull out of it, pull away from Miss Texas pageant, and we eventually did.
But that was a big struggle.
We had staff in the office who were opposed to pageants.
And so they couldn't understand the benefit of it.
And so there was a challenge trying to convince people that there was some benefit in spite of the bad things that had happened that
if we focus on what the purpose of it is and that's the scholarships and just everything else.
And I remember having the big debate about the swimsuit competition and whether we ought to cut it out.
And quite frankly, I think there was enough, we wanted to do it, but our contract with Miss Texas A&M, our contract with the Texas pageant, Miss Texas pageant wouldn't allow us to do it.
We had to do the swimsuit competition.
Did anybody, any group, any person ever come to you during that year, publicly or privately, and say, hey, you, you personally, you're supposed to do more for us than you are?
No, I didn't.
So no minority group, be it African American, Hispanic, female, international, nobody came to you to twist your arm that you specifically ought to,
There was one incident where I thought I led the council to disapprove of a program request that one of our standing committees had actually approved, and it was a program that Black Awareness Committee was sponsoring, and they were bringing Kirk Whalum to campus.
I probably, I don't think it was an over action, but I got the feeling that the program approval just fled, I mean, just sped through the process and that there were some very critical things that the group didn't look at.
So I led the effort to kill it at council.
And obviously there was some backlash behind me leading the effort to do that.
But I called the chair of the committee in, and I said to him, and I told him point blank that I was very disappointed in how they had put together the program.
I said, I'm not trying to dictate to you.
And I said, but this is sloppy.
I said, your marketing plan is poor.
I said, you know, I said, you just put it together.
I said, it's not going to work like this.
And I said, I'll tell you what I'll do.
You all go back and plan a program.
Plan a darn good program.
I will all but guarantee you its passage.
I'll call a special meeting of the executive committee of the council and we'll approve the program, but not until you come back with a decent program.
I got the impression that that program was run through
and not scrutinized the way it should have been because Black Awareness Committee did it and my association with the committee, because it was their big program, it was their major program for the year.
I should say, it was their major, their speakers programs were wonderful.
This was the first time Black Awareness was about to do, to bring a major concert here.
I asked the question about why are you not partnering with Town Hall to do the program?
Why are we not co-programming?
And have you all talked to Town Hall about how they have historically done these kinds of programs?
You all are used to doing speaker programs.
You need to talk to the concert people.
And like I said, when the program came back to executive committee, it was one of the nicest proposals or plans that I had seen.
And I just held it up because I thought it was originally because I thought the group just had not done their job.
You mentioned the battalion a while ago.
What were the key pot shots that the battalion took at you during that year?
Over what issues?
Well, as it turns out, the editor of the battalion sat on the council, and I really wanted
I probably didn't want political stuff with this office than the previous presidents.
We had a bad relationship with the battalion, or if it wasn't bad, it was in a different relationship before that year.
And so Kathy Anderson, who also happened to be the first African-American editor of the battalion, Kathy Ann, she's now at the Dallas Morning News.
So the two of you broke precedent.
We did.
We did not know each other until announcements.
And so I went to her and said to her, I need you to be an active participant on the council.
The editor before was not.
And I said, and I know the struggle is, how do you be a good journalist and then be involved in this?
So I said, I'm going to ask you if you want to sign a reporter,
then you assign a reporter, but I need you to be an active council member.
I need to hear your perspective on things.
And so when she got, there was one story that was a bit controversial across campus.
When the MSC political forum committee decided to bring, they had been working on this program, it was an election year,
They wanted to bring the two gubernatorial candidates to campus.
Mark White, who was the sitting governor, and Bill Clements, who was running for office again.
And so they wanted to bring both of them to campus for a debate.
And that's always an aspiration.
Oh, gubernatorial election, let's bring the candidates.
So what happened was the two campaigns could not agree.
that they were going to do a debate here on campus.
They said, if we do a debate, it'll be somewhere else.
It won't be at College Station.
So we said, let's put together two programs.
One, we will bring Mark White.
The other one, we will bring Bill Clements.
Well, it turns out Mark White had a not so pleasant experience, my understanding, at a game.
I think it was at the Cotton Bowl game where he got booed.
And so he was determined not to come to this campus.
So we proceeded to put together the program.
Well, the Bill Clements program turned out to be what we ended up calling the Republican perspective on the future of Texas.
We wanted to do the same program with the Democrats.
We could not get anybody on the Democrat side to respond to it.
So we decided to go with the program.
Then all of a sudden we get a call that then Vice President Bush wants to come and he wants to be a part of the program.
Not only that, Senator Phil Graham wants to be a part of the program.
So we said, okay, we will do this.
And so we said, well, let's quickly get back to the Mark Weiss folks and start talking about what can we do.
We could not get a response, could not get them to move.
They just said no.
But of course, then all the criticism began that the university is cozying up to all the Republicans and when you do things like this, the Aggies, the Republican Aggies got a little out of control and they started labeling at a big Republican campaign rally.
It was not that, it was to be an educational program.
And so we worked long and hard.
Well, Kathy was running a story
about that, and she called me and said, I'm running this story.
I've decided to run the story, but I wanted to give you a heads up that I was running the story.
And you'll probably get called by the reporter to respond, but I did, Bobby, I do believe I owe you that.
And I told her, I said, I understand you've got your job to do.
But I appreciate the fact that you're going to give us an opportunity to respond.
And in fact, I said, once you run the story, I'd appreciate it if you would spend a great deal of time talking to the student leaders about this and not talk to the campaign staffs, because they're going to characterize it as something very different.
And so we took a lot of criticism.
I mean, I got calls from, in fact, I got a call from a reporter, I believe, at the Dallas Morning News.
And so it made quite a few of the Texas papers.
And I got a call from a reporter at the Dallas Morning News and was asked point blank whether, you know, Bill McKenzie, Billy Mac McKenzie, had some influence in the program.
Were you able to say to any questioner,
that we offered the same opportunity to the Democrats.
We were able to say that.
This thing became so big and all of the Republican Aggies from everywhere got involved in this.
This is about 86?
Yes, it would have been 86.
Yeah, 86 or 86.
It may have been.
Yep, it would have been because the election would have been in November.
And it just, it was incredible.
We, of course, you don't turn down an opportunity when the vice president wants to come to campus.
So we thought it was, we thought it was wonderful.
Well, well, then it's hard to,
It was hard then, I think that made it that much harder to try to get a Democratic program or to get Mark White here or others.
Because we said, we'll take surrogates, let's work on surrogates.
And we tried that and that did not work.
But of course, then we had to have a lot of help from Jim.
We had to have a lot of help from the President's office.
because everybody wanted to sit on stage, and we said, I will never forget to tell Billy Mack McKenzie that he can't sit on stage, who was then
He was not board chair then, but it was apparent that if Clements won, he was going to be chair.
University president then was Dr. Vandiver?
University president then was Dr. Vandiver.
And so we got a great deal.
He did let us manage the issue.
And we just kept him informed, and it turned out to be a great program.
I will never forget backstage as Ann Levy, who was chairing political form that year, as she was giving instructions to then Vice President Bush about the program format.
And looking him directly in the eye and saying, this is not a rally.
we want you to talk about what the Republicans will do for Texas.
I mean, she was giving him instructions.
And so, and he did well in his speech.
And at one point, and then he said, they told me that this was not a rally, that I was gonna have to toe the line.
And he said, but I'm sorry, I can't keep doing it.
At that point, at that point, it was okay, but he did, he did,
He did what we wanted him to do.
And I think it was wonderful that he was able to contain himself.
And he did not say anything.
He talked about his, my good friend, Bill Clements.
I think also, if he had gone away that night feeling badly,
that this campus had been rude to him, we might not have a presidential library here.
That's true.
In fact, I'd like to think that that was his first introduction to A&M.
The response in that room
was incredible.
I think we did not allow signs in because we were told people were going to be dropping off signs and all this.
And we talked to all of the organizations, at least on campus, and said, we're not doing that, folks.
We're not going to have any of that.
Everybody's going to pass their metal detectors.
We're going to take up stuff like that.
And so we were prepared.
But the response he got, I think, in that room, because it was a packed house, was just incredible.
And I think that gave him a really good feeling about A&M.
Let me mention on the machine that I attended an event a few years earlier in that where perhaps he spoke on this campus for the first time.
He was a freshman member of Congress.
the first Republican congressman in modern times representing West Houston.
An MSC political forum had a session on what is the difference between a liberal and a conservative.
He and his wife, and I believe the congressman from Houston was Bob Echols anyway, a liberal, long-time incumbent congressman Democrat from East Houston,
And many of the students were astonished that a Democrat and Republican could ride in the same car, that a liberal and a conservative could be pleasant, and their wives would sit near each other and smile at each other.
And that was way back in the 60s.
But on that occasion, things had gone well also.
Let's see, other big events that you were calling?
Let's see, I think that was probably the biggest.
With Wiley Lecture Series that year, we brought to campus former president Carter and Ford.
And you must have been near them.
What were they like as people?
And I found them to be both down to earth.
I found them to be... In fact, I always thought Ford was just a very intelligent man.
As a student, I didn't think Carter was a very intelligent president.
But he, in my opinion, just carried the...